[synthetics] Add docs on private locations (#2075)
elastic/observability-docs: docs/en/observability/uptime-set-up-app.asciidoc

[[uptime-set-up-choose-agent]]
= Use the {uptime-app}

beta[]

You can now create monitors directly in the {uptime-app}.
To try this beta functionality, first you need to enable Monitor Management:

. Go to **{observability}** -> **Uptime**.
. Click **Monitor Management**.
. Review the terms and conditions and click **Enable** to start using Monitor Management.

From here, you can either <<global-managed-testing-infrastructure,use Elastic's global managed testing infrastructure>>
or <<private-locations,create a private location>> to run monitors from your own premises.

> NOTE: To use the Elastic Synthetics integration, see the https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/observability/8.3/uptime-set-up.html#uptime-set-up-choose-agent[8.3 documentation]. The Elastic Synthetics integration is similar to the {uptime-app} approach, but contains fewer configuration options.

Reviewer: There was some discussion about _fewer configuration options_ and some more content added in https://observability-docs_2075.docs-preview.app.elstc.co/guide/en/observability/master/uptime-set-up.html, maybe this should match?

Author: I'm not sure what this means. 🙃

Reviewer: Sorry @colleenmcginnis, my main point was it should probably have the same content as https://observability-docs_2075.docs-preview.app.elstc.co/guide/en/observability/master/uptime-set-up.html

>To use the Elastic Synthetics integration, see the [8.3 documentation](https://observability-docs_2075.docs-preview.app.elstc.co/guide/en/observability/8.3/uptime-set-up.html#uptime-set-up-choose-agent). The Elastic Synthetics integrations is similar to the Uptime app approach described above, but contains fewer configuration options and does not allow you to run monitors against Elastic’s global managed testing locations.

I _thought_ there has been some discussion about the term _...fewer configuration options..._ but can't find that now, so apologies for the confusion.

Author: Oh I see! Thank you.

. In _Monitor locations_, select one or more locations.
. Choose a _Monitor type_ and configure the monitor as needed.
. Click **Save monitor**.

If you are setting up a **Browser** monitor, see <<synthetics-create-test>>
for more details on writing synthetic tests.

[discrete]
[[private-locations]]
== Run a monitor on private locations

Private locations allow you to run monitors from your own premises.
	
TIP: You can run the same monitor both from Elastic's global managed infrastructure _and_ your private locations to compare results.

Before you create a private location, you need to set up {fleet}, and connect an agent to it.
Then, you can create a private location in the {uptime-app} UI.
Now, whenever you access the monitor creation page, this private location will appear in the list
of locations to which you can deploy monitors.

[discrete]
[[private-locations-fleet-agent]]
=== Set up {fleet-server} and {agent}

To deploy monitors to private locations, you must complete two prerequisites:

* *Set up {fleet-server}*: If you are using {ecloud}, {fleet-server} will already be provided and you can skip this step.
To learn more, see <<set-up-fleet,{fleet}>>.

> * **Create an agent policy**:  For more information on agent policies and creating them,

Reviewer 2: Somewhere in here we should note that we currently only support a single agent per policy and do not support load balancing if multiple agents are added to the same policy. Doing so may lead to weird behavior in fact.

Reviewer: Good point @andrewvc, @colleenmcginnis we should add something about this, for example (feel free to change):

> A Private Location should be set up against an Agent Policy that runs on a single Elastic Agent. Do not run the same Agent Policy on multiple Agents being used for Private Locations, as you may end up with duplicate or missing tests. Private Locations do not currently load balance tests across multiple Elastic Agents.

@andrewvc as we're including something about this, should we also include details of how the Agent handles concurrency, for example something like (again, feel free to change):

> If there are multiple monitors that need to run from a Private Location at the same time, up to two will run concurrently on that Elastic Agent. The other monitors will wait until a previos test has finished running and there is capacity, up to a maximum of two at the same time.

[[uptime-set-up-choose-agent]]
= Use the {uptime-app}

beta[]

You can now create monitors directly in the {uptime-app}.

> To try out this beta functionality, first you will need to enable Monitor Management:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To try this beta functionality, first you need to enable Monitor Management:
```

. Go to **{observability}** -> **Uptime**.
. Click **Monitor Management**.

> . Review the terms and click **Enable** to start using Monitor Management.

Reviewer 3: NIT: doesn't make a huge difference, but "review the terms" sounds a bit weird as I always read "terms and conditions" elsewhere.

```suggestion
. Review the terms and conditions and click **Enable** to start using Monitor Management.
```

> From here, you can either <<global-managed-testing-infrastructure,use global managed testing infrastructure>>

Reviewer 3: Missing the definite article (or perhaps we should just say "Elastic"):

```suggestion
From here, you can either <<global-managed-testing-infrastructure,use Elastic's global managed testing infrastructure>>
```

or <<private-locations,create a private location>> to run monitors from your own premises.

> NOTE: To use the Elastic Synthetics integration, see the https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/observability/8.3/uptime-set-up.html#uptime-set-up-choose-agent[8.3 documentation]. The Elastic Synthetics integrations is similar to the {uptime-app} approach, but contains fewer configuration options.

Reviewer 3: There's a nit here but also I'm a bit concerned about how important it is to mention it has fewer configuration options. Perhaps we should make it more explicit what those configuration differences are or remove it altogether?

```suggestion
NOTE: To use the Elastic Synthetics integration, see the https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/observability/8.3/uptime-set-up.html#uptime-set-up-choose-agent[8.3 documentation]. The Elastic Synthetics integration is similar to the {uptime-app} approach, but contains fewer configuration options.
```

Author: @paulb-elastic what do you think?

Reviewer: @colleenmcginnis I'm not sure we need to focus on what the different options are, as I think users will question _"which options do I want?"_ to try and decide which one to use.  I think this should make it clear that users should use Private Locations as opposed to the Synthetics Integration (which will be removed in the future).

[discrete]
[[global-managed-testing-infrastructure]]
== Use global managed testing infrastructure

// Is there better language we can use to describe what it is
// instead of what is _not_? 
With Elastic's global managed testing infrastructure, you can create and run monitors in multiple
locations using the {uptime-app} the UI without having to set up {fleet},

> pull a Docker image, and install and run an agent on your machine.

Author: Is there better language we can use to describe what it is instead of what is _not_?

Reviewer 2: I'd maybe just contract this to "without the hassle of managing your own infrastructure. We take care of software updates and capacity planning for you". Or something similar, I think you're right to focus on the positive.

Reviewer: Agreed, I like that suggestion

To add a monitor using Elastic's global managed testing infrastructure:

. Go to the **Monitor Management** page.
. Click **Add monitor**.
. In _Monitor locations_, select one or more locations.
. Choose a _Monitor type_ and configure the monitor as needed.

> . Click **Save monitor**.

Reviewer 3: Should these be numbered rather than bullets?

Author: They should be numbered and they are! This AsciiDoc syntax results in an [ordered list](https://github.com/elastic/docs#ordered-lists). (You can also see this on [the preview site](https://observability-docs_2075.docs-preview.app.elstc.co/guide/en/observability/master/uptime-set-up-choose-agent.html#global-managed-testing-infrastructure).)

> If you are setting up a **Browser** synthetic monitor, see <<synthetics-create-test>>

Reviewer 3: NIT?

```suggestion
If you are setting up a **Browser** monitor, see <<synthetics-create-test>>
```

for more details on writing synthetic tests.

[discrete]
[[private-locations]]
== Run a monitor on private locations

> Private locations allow you to run monitors from your own premises in addition to or
> instead of on Elastic's global managed testing infrastructure.

Reviewer 3: Can we add a callout here? I'm not familiar with how it's done in our Asciidoc templates, but I wrote it down so you know what I mean:

```suggestion
Private locations allow you to run monitors from your own premises.

TIP: You can run the same monitor both from Elastic's global managed infrastructure _and_ your private locations to compare results.
```

// The TL;DR of what follows

> Before you create a private location, you need to set up {fleet} and {agent},
> pull a Docker image, and connect to the {stack}. Then, you can create a private location
> in the {uptime-app} UI so when you add a new monitor, the private location will be
> available in the list of _Monitor locations_.

Reviewer 3: People don't necessarily need to pull the Docker image. Images are just one way to use fleet and agent.

```suggestion
Before you create a private location, you need to set up {fleet}, and connect an {agent} to it.

Then, you can create a private location in the {uptime-app} UI.

Now, whenever you access the monitor creation page, this private location will appear in the list of locations to which you can deploy monitors.
```

[discrete]
[[private-locations-fleet-agent]]
=== Set up {fleet-server} and {agent}

// Is this sufficient or should we copy steps for setting up

> // Fleet and Agent into this page directly?

Reviewer 3: I'd say linking to that page is fine. If people are using private locations they're probably more advanced users anyway (or at least like the extra "freedom") so I don't think they would mind just a link.

> If want to run monitors on private locations, there are two prerequisites to complete before you can configure monitors:

Reviewer 3: NIT?

```suggestion
To deploy monitors to private locations, you must complete two pre-requisites:
```

* *Set up {fleet-server}*: If you are using {ecloud}, {fleet-server} will already be provided and you can skip this step.
To learn more, see <<set-up-fleet,{fleet}>>.
* **Create an agent policy**:  For more information on agent policies and creating them,

> see {fleet-guide}/agent-policy.html#create-a-policy[{agent} policy].

Author: Is this sufficient or should we copy steps for setting up Fleet and Agent into this page directly?

Reviewer 2: I think this is the right level of complexity, looks good t ome

[discrete]
[[private-location-docker]]
=== Pull the Docker image

> Elastic provides Docker images that you can use to run monitors, which reduces the chance of problems.

Reviewer 3: I'd be more specific and say that these images are for running Fleet and Agent. Also, I don't think we need to advocate for Docker too much. I think it's fair to assume most readers will be aware of that, especially if they want to use private locations.

```suggestion
Elastic provides Docker images that you can use to run {fleet} and an {agent} more easily.
```

For monitors running on private locations, you _must_ use the `elastic-agent-complete`
Docker image to create a self-hosted {agent} node. The standard {ecloud} or self-hosted
{agent} will not work.

// ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

// Version {version} has not yet been released.

// endif::[]

// ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

To pull the Docker image run:

[source,sh,subs="attributes"]
----
docker pull docker.elastic.co/beats/elastic-agent-complete:{version}
----

// endif::[]

[discrete]
[[private-locations-connect]]
=== Connect to the {stack}

> After configuring the monitor, run it in Docker and connect the monitor to the {stack}.
> To add an {agent} to {fleet}, you'll need an enrollment token and the URL of your {fleet-server}.
> You can use the default enrollment token for your policy or create new enrollment tokens as needed.

Reviewer 3: I think saying that one runs the monitor in docker and connects it to the stack is a bit confusing/inaccurate.

What you actually need to connect to the stack is Fleet, and then enroll Agents, so I updated it to reflect that. Lmk what you think:

```suggestion
Before you can create a private location, you must connect {fleet} to the {stack}.

Then, to enroll an {agent} to {fleet}, you'll need an enrollment token and the URL of the {fleet-server}.

You can use the default enrollment token for your policy or create new policies and enrollment tokens as needed.
```

Author: Ahh thanks for clarifying.

// ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

// Version {version} has not yet been released.

// endif::[]

// ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

[source,sh,subs="attributes"]
----
docker run \
  --env FLEET_ENROLL=1 \
  --env FLEET_URL={fleet-server-host-url} \
  --env FLEET_ENROLLMENT_TOKEN={enrollment-token} \
  --rm docker.elastic.co/beats/elastic-agent-complete:{version}
----

// endif::[]

For more information on running {agent} with Docker, see
{fleet-guide}/elastic-agent-container.html[Run {agent} in a container] and
{fleet-guide}/fleet-enrollment-tokens.html[{fleet} enrollment tokens].

You may need to set other environment variables.
Learn how in {fleet-guide}/agent-environment-variables.html[{agent} environment variables guide].

[discrete]
[[private-locations-add]]
=== Add a private location

To add a new private location:

. Go to **{observability}** -> **Uptime**.
. Click **Monitor Management**.
. Click **Private locations**.
. Click **Add location**.
. Give your new location a unique _Location name_ and select the _Agent policy_ you created above.

> . Click **Save**.

Reviewer 3: Numbered list instead of bullets?

Author: Same as above :)

[discrete]
[[private-locations-config]]
=== Configure the monitor

After you have successfully added a new private location, close the _Private locations_ flyout to return
to the Monitor Management page. From there:

. Click **Add monitor**.
. Give your monitor a unique _Monitor name_.

> . In _Monitor locations_, select your new private location, which will appear using the _Location name_
> you provided and will have a "Private" badge next to the name.

Reviewer 3: NIT:
```suggestion
. In _Monitor locations_, select your new private location, which will appear using the _Location name_
you provided and will have a "Private" badge next to its name.
```

+
image::images/private-locations-monitor-locations.png[Screenshot of Monitor locations options including a private location]
. Choose a _Monitor type_ and configure the monitor as needed.

> . Click **Save monitor**.

Reviewer 3: Numbered list?
